\chapter{Glossary}

This brief glossary was based on a similar work by Robert Lyons \cite{gloss}.

\begin{flushleft}
\begin{tabular}{l p{0.8\linewidth}}

cDNA                  & DNA which has been reverse transcribed using RNA as a
template.\\

Exon                  & The portions of a genomic DNA sequence which will be
represented in the final, mature mRNA. Exons may include coding sequences, the
\textit{5'} untranslated region or the \textit{3'} untranslated region.\\

Expression            & To \qt{express} a gene is to cause it to function. A gene
which encodes a protein will, when expressed, be transcribed and translated to
produce that protein. A gene which encodes an RNA rather than a protein (for
example, a rRNA gene) will produce that RNA when expressed.\\

Gene                  & A unit of DNA which performs one function. Usually, this
is equated with the production of one RNA or one protein. A gene contains coding
regions, introns, untranslated regions and control regions.\\

Genome                & The total DNA contained in each cell of an organism.
There are somewhere in the order of a hundred thousand genes, including coding
regions, \textit{5'} and \textit{3'} untranslated regions, introns, \textit{5'}
and \textit{3'} flanking DNA.\\

Intro                 & Introns are portions of genomic DNA which are
transcribed (and thus present in the primary transcript) but which are later
spliced out. Thus, they are not present in the mature mRNA.\\

mRNA                  & \qt{Messenger RNA} contains sequences coding for a
protein. The term mRNA is used only for a mature transcript (with all introns
removed), rather than the primary transcript in the nucleus.\\

rRNA                  & \qt{Ribosomal RNA} describes any of several RNAs which
become part of the ribosome, and thus are involved in translating mRNA and
synthesizing proteins.\\

\end{tabular}
\end{flushleft}
\begin{flushleft}
\begin{tabular}{l p{0.8\linewidth}}

Shotgun cloning       & The process of randomly shearing an organism's genomic
DNA and cloning it into a suitable vector, resulting in a genomic library.\\

Shotgun sequencing    & Sequencing the DNA library created by shotgun cloning.\\

Transcription         & The process of copying DNA to produce an RNA transcript.
This is the first step in the expression of any gene. The resulting RNA will
produce the desired protein molecule by the process of translation.\\

Translation           & The process of decoding a strand of mRNA, thereby
producing a protein based on the code.\\

tRNA                  & \qt{Transfer RNA} represents one of a class of rather
small RNAs used by the cell to carry amino acids to the enzyme complex (the
ribosome) which builds proteins, using an mRNA as a guide.\\

\end{tabular}
\end{flushleft}

